Univerisdad Politécnica de Yucatán
Digital Economuy Unit 1, Topic 2
Team: 
Ligia Ceballos Tzab
Ulises Mis Pat
Mariely Nieves González
Data Engineering 9-A, September 24,2021

 WORLD IMPACT  ESSAY
As one of the concerned organizations of development in economy matter, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) has made public estimations for Digital Economy growth over the period 2005-2018, first result was published on March 2018, on Abril next year they update such estimations. Such estimations mean are a result of BEA's efforts to deploy a foundtation for the digital economy satellite account, which should involve the services and resources related to this, BEA's digital economy estimations have succeeded as a consequence of its partnership with other entities to raise the accuracy and comparability of the estimates, as well as BEA's own internal research. Recent estimations say that 9.0% (around 1,849.3 billion) dollars has been computed for digital economy in comparison with other traditional commercial business, leaving just behind the Manufacturing sector which made 11.3% (around 2,321.2 billion) . The actualization shows a trend on future behavior of digital economy, and more importantly the role that is playing in the modern life of finance. The real value of digital economy provided an average rate growth of about 6.8% yearly starting from 2006 up to 2018, in comparison with the 1.7% average growth of the overall economy involving all sectors. This quick increase of revenue, was helpful because it allowed the digital economy to grow from 7.3% in 2005 to 9% in 2018, so it took 13 years from having $948.4 billion to having $1,849.3 billion. Digital Economy was able to hold 8.8 million jobs which represents 5.7% of total U.S employment (154.7 million). Most wanted objective in communication for many communities of the the world is to guarantee the universal access of information ICT infrastructure of access indicators evaluate the individual possibilities of people to measure the information accessibility seen from a technological resources perspective. A reason of being of this indicators is that all the ICT infrastructure providers make up managerial registrations for operational and billing purposes. First indicator A1 is about Fixed telephone lines per 100 inhabitants, it basically deals with connection telephone lines from a customer’s terminal equipment to a public switched network. This indicator is calculated by by dividing the number of fixing telephone lines over the population multiplied by 100,  indicator A2 has to be with subscribers of mobile cellulars per 100 inhabitants, it basically takes into account the users with portable numbers which are connected to a public telephone network using cellular technology, this is computed by dividing the number of mobile cellular subscribers over the total amount of people and multiplied by 100. Indicator A3 works with computers per 100 inhabitants and it refers to any compute device such as PC’s, laptops, notebooks, tablets, etc. However is discards the devices whose terminals are min-computers connected to mainframe like cellphones, radios, etc because their main purpose is in  share usage, the calculation of this indicator is very similar to the previous ones, A4 indicator is about internet subscribers per 100 inhabitants, which obviously are people who can afford a internet service rental through a TCP/IP connection. Estimations here depend on the relative speed of the network, the type of device connected to internet or the payment method, calculation on this indicator as as always. A5 indicator titles Broadband Internet subscribers per 100 inhabitants, A broadband Internet subscriber is a person who pays a monthly fee for high-speed Internet access (through a TCP/IP connection). As the aggregate of the capacity in both directions, highspeed access is defined as being equal to or more than 256 kbit/s. The statistic is calculated regardless of the manner of access, the device used to access the Internet, or the payment method. A6 indicator deals with the capacity that backbone operators provide to carry Internet traffic measured in bits per second and it is referred as international Internet bandwidth. A7 refers to the proportion of a country's population who live in areas with mobile cellular signal as a service, regardless of whether they utilize it or not. This is not to be confused with the rate of ground covered by a mobile cellular signal or the proportion of the people using the service. Note that this metric assesses a person's theoretical ability to use mobile cellular services provided they own a phone and have a subscription. A8 is the Internet access tariff which combines the line usage charge rental per month, and Internet access price, as well as any applicable taxes (since this is a service that is utilized by both residential and commercial customers) is concerned with tariff for a given country which is the cheapest package for 20 hours per month that is generally available (or, in the case of regional service providers, available in the capital city) and open to the general public without limitation. The A9 monthly service rental (if applicable), 50 minutes of local peak time calling, and 50 minutes of local off-peak calling, plus tax, are included in the Mobile cellular pricing. Distances may be subjected in variations, which could be applied in some countries, as well as international calls along with SMS messages, are not taken into account. A10 consists of public Internet access centre (PIAC) that is a facility, venue, or educational institution where the public can have Internet connection on a full-time or part-time basis. When they provide Internet connectivity to the general public, this could include digital community centers, Internet cafés, libraries, education centers, and other such establishments. A11 sees radio sets per 100 inhabitants, A radio set is a device that can receive broadcast radio broadcasts on common frequencies like FM, AM, LW, and SW. A radio set can be used as a stand-alone device or as part of a larger system, finally A1 establishes the regulation sets per 100 inhabitants. A television set can be used as a stand-alone device or as part of a larger system, such as a computer or a mobile phone. It may be useful to distinguish between digital and analogue signal transmission, as well as between TV sets that receive a limited number of signals (often over-the-air) and those that get several channels (e.g. by satellite or cable). The digital revolution is reshaping business models, production, and competition in a variety of ways. At least some ICTs are used by the vast majority of businesses. In 2019, 93 percent of businesses in OECD countries had access to broadband, up from 85 percent in 2010. Whereas broadband network shows up to be nearing immersion, when it comes to high-speed broadband, a distinctive picture develops (100 Mbps or more prominent). In 2018, fair 20% of endeavors and 50% of huge enterprises in OECD nations profited from high-speed broadband. While technology can aid in the protection of privacy and personal data, it cannot replace a strategic strategy. A national data strategy, for example, backed by the highest levels of government and including a whole-of-society view while balancing private and collective interests, is one example. Internationally, interoperability of privacy and data protection frameworks at the national and international levels must be encouraged. Patents are often used to protect ICT-related technologies in relevant areas. These include high-speed networks, mobile communication, digital security, sensor and device networks, high-speed computing, large-capacity and high-speed storage, large-capacity information analysis, cognition and meaning understanding, human interface, and imaging and sound technologies. Importantly, patent protection is granted only for a product or a process that brings a novel technical solution. As such, looking at the volumes of such patents granted can offer one indication of the extent of innovation in ICT-related technologies. Telecommunication service providers serve huge swaths of the populace in nations all over the world. The developments of millions of individuals at fine spatial and worldly scales may be observed in close genuine time much obliged to portable call information records. This will help reduce the instability related with flare-up discovery and reaction by giving pertinent data on patterns and changes over time. In health care, digitizing health data, increasing tele-care and tele-consultation, and integrating mobile health technologies can all help to improve care while potentially lowering costs. Data-driven health services, on the other hand, provide new obstacles. Sensor data from agricultural equipment is coupled with weather, climate, and soil data to offer information about production processes in agriculture. This frequently necessitates the transfer of many sorts of data, including personal or commercially sensitive data. Data access and sharing in science and technology give a variety of benefits to society, including repeatability of scientific results and the facilitation of cross-disciplinary collaboration. Data has also proven to be crucial in emergency situations such as the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, the 2014-16 Ebola outbreak in West Africa, and, most recently, the COVID-19 issue.


QUESTIONS
1.What does mean strategic data analysis?(Mariely) 

R: Strategic Data analysis is based on learning what is the need to develop a culture where you can understand how to make complex decisions, the safest way to advance innovation, increase confidence in future decisions based on historical data, as well as offer people certain information or results of something in a simple way such as visualizations. This kind of practices have a common objective which is that organizations feel more confident when executing a method or process.  

2.What are the benefits that data analytics could offer us today?(Mariely) 

R:The benefits of the tool can offer to businesses, is that currently you can get real-time information about the competition, that way the business can offer different things and especially to advance in other areas of competition, so that companies can respond to market changes in a faster and more accurate way. 

3.What is an economic indicator? Mention examples.(Mariely) 

R:An economic indicator is an index that calculates how the economy of a region, state or country is doing. The most common economic indicators are Gross Domestic Product (GDP) or Unemployment Rate. Although these indicators are good, they don't really work for calculating how big the digital economy might be today. 

4.What are some of the advantages of ICTs?(Ulises) 

R:The biggest advantage that ICTs offer us is that the information is faster to reach any place and different people, but also helps the creation of new tools in different areas of work or the automation of certain processes related to productivity and especially innovation as they are always growing and changing. 

5.Mention some examples of ICTs in real life(Mariely) 

R: 
-Social networks such as Facebook, Instagram, Tik Tok. 
-Institutional, business or commercial email. 
-E-commerce like Amazon, Shein, etc. 
-Entertainment such as Video Games, Cell Phones, Laptops, Virtual Assistants or SmartWatches. 
-Data Analysis, Artificial Intelligence, Data Mining or Big Data 

6.What does the development of the digital economy depend on?(Mariely) 

R:The growth of the digital economy depends only if the country has a robust digital ecosystem, for example. if it has digital infrastructure (companies that produce or work with hadware and software, communication networks as well as service providers such as Telmex, Amazon or Google), and human capital. 

7.How ICTs have helped in the health sector?(Mariely) 

R:It has helped a lot with respect to the creation of certain applications for exercise, healthy eating, heart rate measurement and clinical health analysis, it has also helped a lot in the creation of new tools for complicated surgeries as well as the quick access to clinical studies, and lately the analysis of certain data to obtain certain information about diseases. 

8.Describes the definition of ICTs, as well as their main function.(Ulises) 

R:They are tools used in society for the processing of certain information through some technological devices. Their main function is to make information fast and accessible in any circumstance. 

9.Why are ICTs considered the main source of the digital economy?(Mariely) 

R: Because during the last years they have built to boost innovation in different aspects of the daily life of the human being as communication, commerce, health, among other cases. It has also boosted economic growth through increased employment, productivity and enhance competitiveness among companies. 

10.During the growth of the digital economy, which countries have kept up to date?(Ulises) 

R: It could be considered that the countries that have been maintained would be the first powers, an example would be the United States, also Sweden or Denmark. 

11. Acording to digital economy, what does mean society indicators? (Ulises) 

R: It refers to the ones that measure how the society acces and use digital technologies,  how digital economy is involved in people’s life, and their abilities to fully exploit their potential. 

12.  What does mean digital economy Infrastructure indicators? (Ulisses) 

R: These are the indicators that measure the development of physical, service and security infrastructures. It includes access to mobile and fixed networks, the development of next generation access (NGA) networks, the dynamics of household and business uptake, secure servers infrastructure, and infrastructure for the internet of things. 

13.  What thinks do you think Jobs and growth indicators measure? (Ligia) 

R: The thinks  related to labour market, employment creation, investment in ICTs, value added, international trade, e-commerce, and productivity growth. 

14. How you may define Innovation and technology adoption in the context of digital economy?(Ligia) 

R: As the innovation in digital technologies, new digitally-enabled business models, the role of ICTs as an engine for innovation, and adoption of ICTs and other emerging technologies by businesses 

15. Identify the five historical eras of Digital Economy (Ulises) 

R: 
-Internet (Mid 90s) 
-Social Media (Mid 2000's) 
-Collaborative Economy (Now) 
-Autonomous World(Testing) 
-Modern Wellbeing(Emerging) 

 16. Mention the most representative technologies of collaborative economy (Ligia) 

R:
 -Mobile apps 
-Geo-data 
-Online payments 
-Ratings and reviews 
-Marketplace software 

17. What are the main advantages and disadvantages of the Social Media era?(Ligia) 

R: Pros: The way in which people communicate changed allowing the transmission of messages and information to different parts of the world. 

Cons: The social dynamics did not change only in a positive way, privacy became even more uncertain, in addition to the sale and manipulation of data. 

18.  How has ICT impacted in education?(Ligia) 

R: It has helped fight illiteracy. Also, it has maximized the reach of education through inclusiveness and mobility, and it has facilitated research and communication. 

19. How have been the ICT impact in social bussines?(Ligia) 

R: ICT has helped reduce the costs of social entrepreneurship by allowing entrepreneurs to carry out their set-ups without large investments or losses, and has made advice available to everyone. In addition, it has maximized the reach of people, who instead of being limited to physical reach can easily connect with millions of people around the world. 

20.  What has been the positive impact of the use of ICT in a political sphere? (Ligia) 

R: The ICT has made knowledge, political orientation and, above all, awareness-raising available to the masses through advances in facilitating transparency and accountability. In addition, digitization has improved communication, making government more economical and efficient. 



REFERENCES
Jessica R. Nicholson. New Digital Economy Estimate.https://www.bea.gov/system/files/2020-08/New-Digital-Economy-Estimates-August-2020.pdf
OECD.OECD Digital Economy Outlook 2020.https://www.ama.gov.pt/documents/24077/219772/OECD+Digital+Economy+Outlook+2020+(00000002).pdf
Partnership On measuring ICT for developtment.Core ICT indicators.https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Statistics/Documents/coreindicators/Core_ICT_Indicators_E.pdf
A. Ranking de la economía digital. Iberglobal. https://iberglobal.com/index.php/contenidos/globalizacion-y-negocios/746-ranking-de-la-economia-digital#:%7E:text=Suecia%2C%20Dinamarca%20y%20Estados%20Unidos,y%20Brasil%20en%20el%2042.
Equipo editorial, Etecé. (2021, 6 agosto). TICs - Concepto, ventajas, desventajas y ejemplos. Concepto. https://concepto.de/tics/


