Ligia Ceballos
Ulises Mis
Mariely Nieves

As one of the concerned organizations of development in economy matter, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) has made public estimations for Digital Economy growth over the period 2005-2018, first result was published on March 2018, on Abril next year they update such estimations. Such estimations mean are a result of BEA's efforts to deploy a foundtation for the digital economy satellite account, which should involve the services and resources related to this, BEA's digital economy estimations have succeeded as a consequence of its partnership with other entities to raise the accuracy and comparability of the estimates, as well as BEA's own internal research. Recent estimations say that 9.0% (around 1,849.3 billion) dollars has been computed for digital economy in comparison with other traditional commercial business, leaving just behind the Manufacturing sector which made 11.3% (around 2,321.2 billion) . The actualization shows a trend on future behavior of digital economy, and more importantly the role that is playing in the modern life of finance. The real value of digital economy provided an average rate growth of about 6.8% yearly starting from 2006 up to 2018, in comparison with the 1.7% average growth of the overall economy involving all sectors. This quick increase of revenue, was helpful because it allowed the digital economy to grow from 7.3% in 2005 to 9% in 2018, so it took 13 years from having $948.4 billion to having $1,849.3 billion. Digital Economy was able to hold 8.8 million jobs which represents 5.7% of total U.S employment (154.7 million). Most wanted objective in communication for many communities of the the world is to guarantee the universal access of information ICT infrastructure of access indicators evaluate the individual possibilities of people to measure the information accessibility seen from a technological resources perspective. A reason of being of this indicators is that all the ICT infrastructure providers make up managerial registrations for operational and billing purposes. First indicator Box A1 is about Fixed telephone lines per 100 inhabitants, it basically deals with connection telephone lines from a customer’s terminal equipment.


What does mean strategic data analysis? 

Strategic Data analysis is based on learning what is the need to develop a culture where you can understand how to make complex decisions, the safest way to advance innovation, increase confidence in future decisions based on historical data, as well as offer people certain information or results of something in a simple way such as visualizations. These kind of practices have a common objective which is that organizations feel more confident when executing a method or process.  

What are the benefits that data analytics could offer us today? 

The benefits of the tool can offer to businesses, is that currently you can get real-time information about the competition, that way the business can offer different things and especially to advance in other areas of competition, so that companies can respond to market changes in a faster and more accurate way. 

3. What is an economic indicator? Mention examples. 

An economic indicator is an index that calculates how the economy of a region, state or country is doing. The most common economic indicators are Gross Domestic Product (GDP) or Unemployment Rate. Although these indicators are good, they don't really work for calculating how big the digital economy might be today. 

4. What are some of the advantages of ICTs? 

The biggest advantage that ICTs offer us is that the information is faster to reach any place and different people, but also helps the creation of new tools in different areas of work or the automation of certain processes related to productivity and especially innovation as they are always growing and changing. 

5. Mention some examples of ICTs in real life 

-Social networks such as Facebook, Instagram, Tik Tok. 
-Institutional, business or commercial email. 
-E-commerce like Amazon, Shein, etc. 
-Entertainment such as Video Games, Cell Phones, Laptops, Virtual Assistants or SmartWatches. 
-Data Analysis, Artificial Intelligence, Data Mining or Big Data 

6. What does the development of the digital economy depend on? 

The growth of the digital economy depends only if the country has a robust digital ecosystem, for example. if it has digital infrastructure (companies that produce or work with hadware and software, communication networks as well as service providers such as Telmex, Amazon or Google), and human capital. 